---
layout:     post
title:      "Analysis of problem decomposition strategies of novice industrial designers using network-based cognitive maps"
author:     Zhou Chuyi
authorlist: Zhou Chuyi, Chai Chunlei, Liao Jing
excerpt:    'This paper propose a new method to study the problem-solving strategies of novince designers.'
date:       2021-01-25
paperurl:   'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10798-020-09647-1'
tags: 		design research
citation:   /citations/2021-01-25-pub8.bib
category:   project2
collections: publications
---

## Abstract
There is limited information about the design process and outcomes of novice industrial designers when working with different levels of problem abstraction. In this paper, we propose a new way of describing the cognitive processes of problem solving based on problem decomposition strategy studies and network-based cognitive maps. An empirical study was conducted to examine the impact of problem abstraction on novice designers, and their reasoning mode was quantitatively explored. Thirty-three novice designers majoring in industrial design participated in a 40-min design exercise and verbalized their cognitive process while they were solving a given design problem. The verbal protocols from the experiment were first segmented, then encoded based on cognitive maps. By analyzing the problem-solving process using this new method, we found that designers use different reasoning modes for different levels of problem abstraction. Abstract problems helped designers to break design fixation and promote the divergence of ideas. Ideas also improved in fluency, originality and novelty so that the abstract group generated better solutions. The study contributes to an enhanced understanding of design activity.
